# COP4531: Programming Assignment 1

## Overview

This assignment involves implementing various sorting algorithms and graphing their performance using `graphing.py`. The project is structured to allow easy execution and testing of the sorting algorithms.

## Files

- `counting.cpp`: Contains the implementation of the counting sort algorithm.
- `bucket.cpp`: Contains the implementation of the bucket sort algorithm.
- `radix.cpp`: Contains the implementation of the radix sort algorithm.
- `merge.cpp`: Contains the implementation of the merge sort algorithm.
- `quicksort.cpp`: Contains the implementation of the quick sort algorithm.
- `heapsort.cpp`: Contains the implementation of the heap sort algorithm.
- `insertion.cpp`: Contains the implementation of the insertion sort algorithm.
- `generatearrays.h`: Contains the function to generate random arrays.
- `generatearrays.cpp`: Contains the implementation of the function to generate random arrays.
- `graphing.py`: Contains functions to graph the performance of the sorting algorithm based on the output of all sorting files.
- `Makefile`: Automates the execution of the sorting algorithms and the generation of graphs.
- `README.md`: This file, providing instructions on how to run the code.
- `Brady_H Generated Graphs.pdf`: Contains the graphs generated by the code.

## Python Imports

The following Python libraries are used in this project:

- `matplotlib.pyplot`: For graphing the performance of the sorting algorithms.
- `pandas`: For data manipulation and analysis.

## Data Generation

Arrays are generated using the `generatearrays.cpp` file. The arrays are generated using the `generateArray` and `generateArrayReals` function, which takes the size of the array as an argument and returns a vector of random integers. I used the random module to generate random integers and append them to the vector.

## Running the Code

To run the code, follow these steps:

1. Make sure you have the python libraries `matplotlib` and `pandas` installed.
``` pip install matplotlib pandas ```
2. In order to compile the sorting algorithms, run the following command:
   `make run`
3. Wait until all the sorting algorithms have been compiled. The insertion sort algorithm may take a while to execute.
4. Once insertion sort is done, run the following command to generate the graphs:
   `python graphing.py`
5. The graphs will pop up in a new window.

## Makefile

The `Makefile` is used to automate the execution of the sorting algorithms and the generation of graphs. It contains the following targets:

- `all`: Com
- `clean`: Removes any generated files.
- `run`: Compiles all sorting algorithms and executes them, creating the data files.